🏦 Loan Application System - AWS Cloud Project
This project demonstrates a serverless Loan Application System using AWS services. It collects user data via a frontend form, stores it in DynamoDB, and sends a confirmation email via Amazon SES.

📌 Architecture Overview
Frontend: HTML/JS form (running on VS Code Live Server).

API Layer: AWS API Gateway (HTTP API).

Compute: AWS Lambda (Python 3.12).

Database: AWS DynamoDB.

Notification: Amazon SES (Simple Email Service).

🔹 Phase 1: DynamoDB Database Setup
We need a NoSQL database to store the loan application details submitted by users.

Step 1: Create Table
Go to AWS Console → Search for DynamoDB.

Click Create table.

Enter the following details:

Table name: LoanApplications

Partition key: applicationId (Select String)

Capacity settings: Select On-demand.

Encryption: Keep as Default.

Click Create table.

Note: The data stored will look like this:

JSON
{
  "applicationId": "a12345",
  "name": "Ravi Kumar",
  "email": "ravi@gmail.com",
  "mobile": "9876543210",
  "loanAmount": "500000",
  "loanType": "Home Loan",
  "timestamp": "2026-01-22T10:30"
}
🔹 Phase 2: SES Email Verification
We use Amazon SES to send confirmation emails. Since the account is in Sandbox Mode, you must verify the sender and receiver emails.

Step 2: Verify Email Identity
Go to AWS Console → Search for Amazon SES.

Click Verified identities in the sidebar.

Click Create identity and choose Email address.

Enter your email (e.g., yourmail@gmail.com).

Click Verify.

📩 Action Required: Go to your Gmail inbox and click the verification link sent by AWS.

⚠️ Important Sandbox Limitation: In the free tier (Sandbox), you can only send emails TO and FROM verified email addresses. This is sufficient for college projects and testing.

🔹 Phase 3: IAM Role for Lambda
The Lambda function needs permission to access the Database (DynamoDB) and Email Service (SES).

Step 3: Create IAM Role
Go to IAM → Roles → Create role.

Trusted Entity: Select AWS Service → Choose Lambda.

Add Permissions: Search for and attach these three policies:

AmazonDynamoDBFullAccess

AmazonSESFullAccess

AWSLambdaBasicExecutionRole

Role Name: Enter LoanLambdaRole.

Click Create role.

🔹 Phase 4: Lambda Function
This is the backend logic that processes the data.

Step 4: Create Function
Go to AWS Lambda → Create function.

Function name: LoanApplicationFunction.

Runtime: Python 3.12.

Permissions:

Expand "Change default execution role".

Select Use an existing role.

Choose LoanLambdaRole (created in Phase 3).

Click Create function.

Code Deployment: Paste your Python code into the code editor and click Deploy.

🔹 Phase 5: API Gateway (The Bridge)
Browsers cannot directly trigger Lambda functions securely. We use API Gateway to create a public URL (endpoint).

Shutterstock

Step 5.1: Create the API
Go to API Gateway.

Click Create API → Select HTTP API → Click Build.

Step 5.2: Integration
Integrations: Choose Lambda.

Select Function: Choose LoanApplicationFunction.

API Name: Enter LoanAPI.

Step 5.3: Configure Routes
We need a POST route because we are sending data (JSON) to the server securely.

Method: POST

Resource path: /apply-loan

Click Next.

Step 5.4: Stages
Leave the stage name as $default or create a custom stage named prod.

Why prod? It stands for Production. It is an industry standard to version APIs (e.g., dev, test, prod).

Click Create.

✅ Final API URL
Your API Endpoint will look like this: https://abc123.execute-api.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/apply-loan

🔹 Phase 6: CORS Configuration (Crucial)
If you try to connect your Frontend to the API now, you will get a CORS Error in the browser console.

Why?
Browsers block requests from one domain (your localhost) to another (AWS) for security. We must explicitly allow it.

Step 6: Enable CORS
Go to your API in API Gateway.

Click CORS in the sidebar.

Access-Control-Allow-Origin: Enter * (Allows all domains).

Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Enter *.

Access-Control-Allow-Methods: Add POST and OPTIONS.

Click Save.

Note: The OPTIONS method is automatically handled by the browser as a "pre-flight" check to see if the server accepts the request.

🔹 Phase 7: Frontend & Deployment
You have a separate HTML file for the user interface.

How to Run the Frontend
❌ Do NOT simply double-click the .html file to open it in Chrome (file:// protocol).

Reason: Browsers treat local files as insecure and will block the connection to AWS API Gateway due to CORS policies.

✅ Correct Way:

Open the folder in VS Code.

Install the "Live Server" extension.

Right-click your HTML file and select "Open with Live Server".

This runs your site on a local server (e.g., http://127.0.0.1:5500), which satisfies CORS requirements.

🚀 Final Workflow
User fills out the form on the Frontend and clicks Submit.

Data is sent via API Gateway (POST request).

Lambda receives the data.

Lambda inserts the record into DynamoDB.

Lambda uses SES to send a confirmation email to the user.

User sees a "Success" message on the screen.




change the email, db name and api url accrdingly in html and lambda 
